Arguments can be passed to the script when it is executed, by writing them as a space-delimited list following the script file name.

Inside the script, the $1 variable references the first argument in the command line, $2 the second argument and so forth. The variable $0 references to the current script. 

In the following example, the script name is followed by 6 arguments.

**./bin/my_shopping.sh apple 5 banana 8 “Fruit Basket” 15**

**echo $3 –> results with: banana**

**BIG=$5**

**echo “A $BIG costs just $6” –> results with: A Fruit Basket costs just 15**

The variable $# holds the number of arguments passed to the script

**echo $# –> results with: 6**

The variable $@ holds a space delimited string of all arguments passed to the script


## Arguments

The advantage of bash scripts is that we can always pass up to 9 arguments (`$0`-`$9`) to the script without assigning them to variables or setting the corresponding requirements for these. `9 arguments` because the first argument `$0` is reserved for the script. As we can see here, we need the dollar sign (`$`) before the name of the variable to use it at the specified position. The assignment would look like this in comparison:

```shell-session
chocolateeboi@htb[/htb]$ ./script.sh ARG1 ARG2 ARG3 ... ARG9
       ASSIGNMENTS:       $0      $1   $2   $3 ...   $9
```

This means that we have automatically assigned the corresponding arguments to the predefined variables in this place. These variables are called special variables. These special variables serve as placeholders. If we now look at the code section again, we will see where and which arguments have been used.