In the previous task, we used the WHOIS protocol to get various information about the domain name we were looking up. In particular, we were able to get the DNS servers from the registrar.

Find the IP address of a domain name using `nslookup`, which stands for Name Server Look Up. 

You need to issue the command `nslookup DOMAIN_NAME`, for example, `nslookup tryhackme.com`. 

Or, more generally, you can use `nslookup OPTIONS DOMAIN_NAME SERVER`. These three main parameters are:

-   OPTIONS contains the query type as shown in the table below. For instance, you can use `A` for IPv4 addresses and `AAAA` for IPv6 addresses.
-   DOMAIN_NAME is the domain name you are looking up.
-   SERVER is the DNS server that you want to query. You can choose any local or public DNS server to query. Cloudflare offers `1.1.1.1` and `1.0.0.1`, Google offers `8.8.8.8` and `8.8.4.4`, and Quad9 offers `9.9.9.9` and `149.112.112.112`. There are many [more public DNS servers](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=public+dns) that you can choose from if you want alternatives to your ISP’s DNS servers.

>The A and AAAA records are used to return IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, respectively. This lookup is helpful to know from a penetration testing perspective. I


<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">DIG</mark>



For more advanced DNS queries and additional functionality, you can use `dig`, the acronym for “Domain Information Groper,” if you are curious. 

Let’s use `dig` to look up the MX records and compare them to `nslookup`. 

We can use `dig DOMAIN_NAME`, but to specify the record type, we would use `dig DOMAIN_NAME TYPE`. 

Optionally, we can select the server we want to query using `dig @SERVER DOMAIN_NAME TYPE`.

-   SERVER is the DNS server that you want to query.
-   DOMAIN_NAME is the domain name you are looking up.
-   TYPE contains the DNS record type, as shown in the table provided earlier.

```shell-session
user@TryHackMe$ dig tryhackme.com MX

; <<>> DiG 9.16.19-RH <<>> tryhackme.com MX
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<
```




A quick comparison between the output of `nslookup` and `dig` shows that `dig` returned more information, such as the TTL (Time To Live) by default. 


If you want to query a `1.1.1.1` DNS server, you can execute `dig @1.1.1.1 tryhackme.com MX`.