DNS lookup tools, such as nslookup and dig, cannot find subdomains on their own.


https://dnsdumpster.com/

The domain you are inspecting might include a different subdomain that can reveal much information about the target. 

For instance, if tryhackme.com has the subdomains wiki.tryhackme.com and webmail.tryhackme.com, you want to learn more about these two as they can hold a trove of information about your target. 

There is a possibility that one of these subdomains has been set up and is not updated regularly. 


Lack of proper regular updates usually leads to vulnerable services. But how can we know that such subdomains exist?

We can consider using multiple search engines to compile a list of publicly known subdomains. 

One search engine won’t be enough; moreover, we should expect to go through at least tens of results to find interesting data. 

After all, you are looking for subdomains that are not explicitly advertised, and hence it is not necessary to make it to the first page of search results. 

Another approach to discover such subdomains would be to rely on brute-forcing queries to find which subdomains have DNS records.

To avoid such a time-consuming search, one can use an online service that offers detailed answers to DNS queries, such as [DNSDumpster](https://dnsdumpster.com/).


If we search DNSDumpster for `tryhackme.com`, we will discover the subdomain `blog.tryhackme.com`, which a typical DNS query cannot provide. 

In addition, DNSDumpster will return the collected DNS information in easy-to-read tables and a graph. 

We will search for `tryhackme.com` on DNSDumpster to give you a glimpse of the expected output. 

Among the results, we got a list of DNS servers for the domain we are looking up. 


DNSDumpster also resolved the domain names to IP addresses and even tried to geolocate them. We can also see the MX records; 

DNSDumpster resolved all five mail exchange servers to their respective IP addresses and provided more information about the owner and location.

Finally, we can see TXT records. Practically a single query was enough to retrieve all this information.