SSL Handshake Protocol Flow

The SSL handshake protocol works on top of the SSL record layer. The processes executed in the
three-way handshake protocol are as follows:


1. The client sends a hello message to the server, to which the server must respond with a
hello message, or the connection will fail due to the occurrence of a fatal error. The
attributes established due to the server and client hello are protocol version, session ID,
cipher suite, and compression method.


2. After the connection is established, the server sends a certificate to the client for
authentication. In addition, the server might send a server-key exchange message. On
authentication of the server, it may ask the client for the certificate (if appropriate for the
cipher suite selected).


3. The server sends a "hello done" message to inform the client that the handshake phase
is complete and waits for the clients response.


4. If the client receives a certificate-request message, the client must respond to the
message by sending a certificate message or "no certificate" alert. The server sends the
client key-exchange message. The content of the message depends on the public-key
algorithm between the server hello and the client hello. If the certificate sent by the client
has signing ability, a digitally signed certificate verifies the message, and the client
transmits it.


5. The client transmits the changed cipher-spec message and copies the pending cipher spec
into the current cipher spec. The client sends a message to initiate the completion of the
message under the new algorithm, keys, and secrets.


6. In response, the server replies by sending its own changed cipher-spec message, transfers
the pending cipher spec to the current cipher spec, and initiates the completion of the
message under the new cipher spec. At this point, the handshake is complete and the
server starts exchanging the application-layer data.