
This lab contains a [file path traversal](https://portswigger.net/web-security/file-path-traversal) vulnerability in the display of product images.

The application blocks input containing [path traversal](https://portswigger.net/web-security/file-path-traversal) sequences. It then performs a URL-decode of the input before using it.

To solve the lab, retrieve the contents of the `/etc/passwd` file.


<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">ANS</mark>

now i read the question carefully and thiugh it was same as previous one, and chanaged the previous paramater in encoded format but no luck


then i saw the difference is that in previous lab application was filtering out the traversl sequence but in this case it is blocking it and then URL decoing it at the server. 

what i understand is that all parameters that i input should be in URL encoded format(i can be wrong on this)

so i tried the injections with null byte (%00)

at the end and other variations as well

but no luck so i went with the solution

1.  Use Burp Suite to intercept and modify a request that fetches a product image.
2.  Modify the `filename` parameter, giving it the value:
    
    `..%252f..%252f..%252fetc/passwd`
3.  Observe that the response contains the contents of the `/etc/passwd` file.

i had tried URl encoded version of "../../../etc/passwd" and that is 

"..%2f..%2f..%2fetc%2fpasswd"

This is different from the actual injection so i went to community solution for explanation.



When i encoded ../../ in burpo encoded i got this

as ..%2f..%2f. 

This is encoded version of ../

No when i encode this "..%2f" again i get this

"..%252f"

From this i conclude that the server is filering the input so we cannot directly put ../ in URL.

Now it is also decoding which is why

<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">we are double encoding the injection before putting it into the URL
</mark>















 