
- Bootstrap 5 is the newest version of [Bootstrap](https://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/default.asp), which is the most popular HTML, CSS, and JavaScript framework for creating responsive, mobile-first websites.

- Bootstrap 5 is completely free to download and use!


---


## What is Bootstrap?

- Bootstrap is a free front-end framework for faster and easier web development
- Bootstrap includes HTML and CSS based design templates for typography, forms, buttons, tables, navigation, modals, image carousels and many other, as well as optional JavaScript plugins
- Bootstrap also gives you the ability to easily create responsive designs


---


**What is Responsive Web Design?**  
  
Responsive web design is about creating web sites which automatically adjust themselves to look good on all devices, from small phones to large desktops.

---


### Why Use Bootstrap?

Advantages of Bootstrap:

- **Easy to use:** Anybody with just basic knowledge of HTML and CSS can start using Bootstrap
- **Responsive features:** Bootstrap's responsive CSS adjusts to phones, tablets, and desktops
- **Mobile-first approach:** In Bootstrap, mobile-first styles are part of the core framework
- **Browser compatibility:** Bootstrap 5 is compatible with all modern browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari, and Opera). **Note** that if you need support for IE11 and down, you must use either BS4 or BS3.


---


## Where to Get Bootstrap 5?

There are two ways to start using Bootstrap 5 on your own web site.

You can:

- Include Bootstrap 5 from a CDN
- Download Bootstrap 5 from getbootstrap.com


---


## Bootstrap 5 CDN

If you don't want to download and host Bootstrap 5 yourself, you can include it from a CDN (Content Delivery Network).

jsDelivr provides CDN support for Bootstrap's CSS and JavaScript:


```html
<!-- Latest compiled and minified CSS -->  
<link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.1/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet">  
  
<!-- Latest compiled JavaScript -->  
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.1/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js"></script>
```

**One advantage of using the Bootstrap 5 CDN:**  
Many users already have downloaded Bootstrap 5 from jsDelivr when visiting another site. As a result, it will be loaded from cache when they visit your site, which leads to faster loading time. Also, most CDN's will make sure that once a user requests a file from it, it will be served from the server closest to them, which also leads to faster loading time.  
  
**JavaScript?**  
Bootstrap 5 uses JavaScript for different components (like modals, tooltips, popovers etc). However, if you just use the CSS part of Bootstrap, you don't need them.


---

## Downloading Bootstrap 5

If you want to download and host Bootstrap 5 yourself, go to [https://getbootstrap.com/](https://getbootstrap.com/), and follow the instructions there

---


