Pandas is a Python library that allows us to manipulate, process, and structure data. It can be imported using `import pandas`. 

In today’s task, we are going to import Pandas as the alias "pd" to make it easier to refer to within our program. This can be done via  `import as pd`.


There are a few fundamental data structures that we first need to understand.

---

Series

In pandas, a series is similar to a singular column in a table. It uses a key-value pair. The key is the index number, and the value is the data we wish to store. 

To create a series, we can use Panda's Series function. First, let's:

1. Create a list: `transportation = ['Train', 'Plane', 'Car']`
2. Create a new variable to store the series by providing the list from above: `transportation_series = pd.Series(transportation)`
3. Now, let's print the series: `print(transportation_series)`

|   |   |
|---|---|
|**Key (Index)**|**Value**|
|0|Train|
|1|Plane|
|2|Car|


---

DataFrame

DataFrames extend a series because they are a grouping of series. In this case, they can be compared to a spreadsheet or database because they can be thought of as a table with rows and columns. To illustrate this concept, we will load the following data into a DataFrame:

- Name
- Age
- Country of residence

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
|**Name**|**Age**|**Country of Residence**|
|Ben|24|United Kingdom|
|Jacob|32|United States of America|
|Alice|19|Germany|

For this, we will create a two-dimensional list. Remember, a DataFrame has rows and columns, so we’ll need to provide each row with data in the respective column.
