- When comparing IT infrastructure models, there are two types of expenses to consider. Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operational expenditure (OpEx).
- CapEx is typically a one-time, up-front expenditure to purchase or secure tangible resources. A new building, repaving the parking lot, building a datacenter, or buying a company vehicle are examples of CapEx.
- OpEx is spending money on services or products over time. Renting a convention center, leasing a company vehicle, or signing up for cloud services are all examples of OpEx.

- Cloud computing falls under OpEx because cloud computing operates on a consumption-based model. 
- With cloud computing, you don’t pay for the physical infrastructure, the electricity, the security, or anything else associated with maintaining a datacenter.
- Instead, you pay for the IT resources you use. If you don’t use any IT resources this month, you don’t pay for any IT resources.

This consumption-based model has many benefits, including:

- No upfront costs.
- No need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure that users might not use to its fullest potential.
- The ability to pay for more resources when they're needed.
- The ability to stop paying for resources that are no longer needed.

---


## Compare cloud pricing models

Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet by using a pay-as-you-go pricing model. 
You typically pay only for the cloud services you use, which helps you:

- Plan and manage your operating costs.
- Run your infrastructure more efficiently.
- Scale as your business needs change.
