An HTML form is used to collect user input. The user input is most often sent to a server for processing.


## The < form> Element

The HTML `<form>` element is used to create an HTML form for user input:

<form>  
.  
_form elements_  
.  
</form>


The `<form>` element is a container for different types of input elements, such as: text fields, checkboxes, radio buttons, submit buttons, etc.

All the different form elements are covered in this chapter: [HTML Form Elements](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_form_elements.asp).

---
## The < input> Element

The HTML `<input>` element is the most used form element.

An `<input>` element can be displayed in many ways, depending on the `type` attribute.

Here are some examples:

|Type|Description|


|`<input type="text">`|Displays a single-line text input field|

|`<input type="radio">`|Displays a radio button (for selecting one of many choices)|

|`<input type="checkbox"`>|Displays a checkbox (for selecting zero or more of many choices)|

|`<input type="submit">`|Displays a submit button (for submitting the form)|

|`<input type="button">`|Displays a clickable button|


---
## Text Fields

The `<input type="text">` defines a single-line input field for text input.

A form with input fields for text:

<form>  
  <label for="fname">First name:</label><br>  
  <input type="text" id="fname" name="fname"><br>  
  <label for="lname">Last name:</label><br>  
  <input type="text" id="lname" name="lname">  
</form>

---

## The < label> Element

Notice the use of the `<label>` element in the example above.

The `<label>` tag defines a label for many form elements.

The `<label>` element is useful for screen-reader users, because the screen-reader will read out loud the label when the user focuses on the input element.

The `<label>` element also helps users who have difficulty clicking on very small regions (such as radio buttons or checkboxes) - because when the user clicks the text within the `<label>` element, it toggles the radio button/checkbox.

The `for` attribute of the `<label>` tag should be equal to the `id` attribute of the `<input>` element to bind them together.



