- When building or deploying a cloud application, two of the biggest considerations are uptime (or availability) and the ability to handle demand (or scale).

---


## High availability

- When you’re deploying an application, a service, or any IT resources, it’s important the resources are available when needed. High availability focuses on ensuring maximum availability, regardless of disruptions or events that may occur.
- In azure service availability guarantees are part of the service-level agreements (SLAs).

---


## Scalability

- Another major benefit of cloud computing is the scalability of cloud resources. 
- Scalability refers to the ability to adjust resources to meet demand. 
- If you suddenly experience peak traffic and your systems are overwhelmed, the ability to scale means you can add more resources to better handle the increased demand.


### Vertical scaling

- With vertical scaling, if you were developing an app and you needed more processing power, you could vertically scale up to add more CPUs or RAM to the virtual machine.
- Conversely, if you realized you had over-specified the needs, you could vertically scale down by lowering the CPU or RAM specifications.

### Horizontal scaling

- With horizontal scaling, if you suddenly experienced a steep jump in demand, your deployed resources could be scaled out (either automatically or manually). 
- For example, you could add additional virtual machines or containers, scaling out. 
- In the same manner, if there was a significant drop in demand, deployed resources could be scaled in (either automatically or manually), scaling in.