Reliability and predictability are two crucial cloud benefits that help you develop solutions with confidence.

---

## Reliability

-  is the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function. It's also one of the pillars of the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.

---

## Predictability

- Predictability in the cloud lets you move forward with confidence. 
- Predictability can be focused on performance predictability or cost predictability. 
- Both performance and cost predictability are heavily influenced by the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework. 
- Deploy a solution that’s built around this framework and you have a solution whose cost and performance are predictable.

---

### Performance

- Performance predictability focuses on predicting the resources needed to deliver a positive experience for your customers. 
- Autoscaling, load balancing, and high availability are just some of the cloud concepts that support performance predictability.


---

### Cost

- Cost predictability is focused on predicting or forecasting the cost of the cloud spend. 
- With the cloud, you can track your resource use in real time, monitor resources to ensure that you’re using them in the most efficient way, and apply data analytics to find patterns and trends that help better plan resource deployments.
- By operating in the cloud and using cloud analytics and information, you can predict future costs and adjust your resources as needed. 
- You can even use tools like the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) or Pricing Calculator to get an estimate of potential cloud spend.