https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/findstr


Searches for patterns of text in files.

## Syntax

```
findstr [/b] [/e] [/l | /r] [/s] [/i] [/x] [/v] [/n] [/m] [/o] [/p] [/f:<file>] [/c:<string>] [/g:<file>] [/d:<dirlist>] [/a:<colorattribute>] [/off[line]] <strings> [<drive>:][<path>]<filename>[ ...]
```


### Parameters

Parameter

Description

/b

Matches the text pattern if it is at the beginning of a line.

/e

Matches the text pattern if it is at the end of a line.

/l

Processes search strings literally.

/r

Processes search strings as regular expressions. This is the default setting.

/s

Searches the current directory and all subdirectories.

/i

Ignores the case of the characters when searching for the string.

/x

Prints lines that match exactly.

/v

Prints only lines that don't contain a match.

/n

Prints the line number of each line that matches.

/m

Prints only the file name if a file contains a match.

/o

Prints character offset before each matching line.

/p

Skips files with non-printable characters.

/off[line]

Does not skip files that have the offline attribute set.

/f:`<file>`

Gets a file list from the specified file.

/c:`<string>`

Uses the specified text as a literal search string.

/g:`<file>`

Gets search strings from the specified file.

/d:`<dirlist>`

Searches the specified list of directories. Each directory must be separated with a semicolon (;), for example `dir1;dir2;dir3`.

/a:`<colorattribute>`

Specifies color attributes with two hexadecimal digits. Type `color /?` for additional information.

`<strings>`

Specifies the text to search for in _filename_. Required.

`[\<drive>:][<path>]<filename>[...]`

Specifies the location and file or files to search. At least one file name is required.

/?

Displays Help at the command prompt.