NTFS permissions on files and folders in Windows can be managed using the File Explorer GUI under the security tab. Apart from the GUI, we can also achieve a fine level of granularity over NTFS file permissions in Windows from the command line using the icacls utility.


We can list out the NTFS permissions on a specific directory by running either `icacls` from within the working directory or `icacls C:\Windows` against a directory not currently in.

```cmd-session
C:\htb> icacls c:\windows
```

The resource access level is list after each user in the output. The possible inheritance settings are:

-   `(CI)`: container inherit
-   `(OI)`: object inherit
-   `(IO)`: inherit only
-   `(NP)`: do not propagate inherit
-   `(I)`: permission inherited from parent container


```cmd-session
c:\windows NT SERVICE\TrustedInstaller:(F)
           NT SERVICE\TrustedInstaller:(CI)(IO)(F)
           NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM:(M)
           NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM:(OI)(CI)(IO)(F)
```

In the above example, the `NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM` account has object inherit, container inherit, inherit only, and full access permissions. This means that this account has full control over all file system objects in this directory and subdirectories.

Basic access permissions are as follows:

-   `F` : full access
-   `D` :  delete access
-   `N` :  no access
-   `M` :  modify access
-   `RX` :  read and execute access
-   `R` :  read-only access
-   `W` :  write-only access

>We can add and remove permissions via the command line using `icacls`.


Here we are executing `icacls` in the context of a local administrator account showing the `C:\users` directory where the `joe` user does not have any write permissions.

```cmd-session
C:\htb> icacls c:\Users
```

Using the command `icacls c:\users /grant joe:f` we can grant the joe user full control over the directory, but given that `(oi)` and `(ci)` were not included in the command, the joe user will only have rights over the `c:\users` folder but not over the user subdirectories and files contained within them.


These permissions can be revoked using the command `icacls c:\users /remove joe`.


`icacls` is very powerful and can be used in a domain setting to give certain users or groups specific permissions over a file or folder, explicitly deny access, enable or disable inheritance permissions, and change directory/file ownership.


A full listing of `icacls` command-line arguments and detailed permission settings can be found [here](https://ss64.com/nt/icacls.html).


