
## PHP Loops

Loops are used to execute the same block of code again and again, as long as a certain condition is true.

In PHP, we have the following loop types:

- `while` - loops through a block of code as long as the specified condition is true
- `do...while` - loops through a block of code once, and then repeats the loop as long as the specified condition is true
- `for` - loops through a block of code a specified number of times
- `foreach` - loops through a block of code for each element in an array
---

## The PHP while Loop

The `while` loop executes a block of code as long as the specified condition is true.


```php
<?php  
$x = 1;  
  
while($x <= 5) {  
  echo "The number is: $x <br>";  
  $x++;  
}  
?>
```


---

## The PHP do...while Loop

The `do...while` loop will always execute the block of code once, it will then check the condition, and repeat the loop while the specified condition is true.


```php
<?php  
$x = 1;  
  
do {  
  echo "The number is: $x <br>";  
  $x++;  
} while ($x <= 5);  
?>
```

**Note:** In a `do...while` loop the condition is tested AFTER executing the statements within the loop. This means that the `do...while` loop will execute its statements at least once, even if the condition is false. 

---


## The PHP for Loop

The `for` loop is used when you know in advance how many times the script should run.

For loop syntax

```php
for (init counter; test counter; increment counter) {
  code to be executed for each iteration;
}
```



```php
<?php  
for ($x = 0; $x <= 10; $x++) {  
  echo "The number is: $x <br>";  
}  
?>
```


---

## The PHP foreach Loop

The `foreach` loop works only on arrays, and is used to loop through each key/value pair in an array.

```php

<?php  
$colors = array("red", "green", "blue", "yellow");  
  
foreach ($colors as $value) {  
  echo "$value <br>";  
}  
?>
```

---

## PHP Break

The `break` statement can also be used to jump out of a loop.

```php
<?php  
for ($x = 0; $x < 10; $x++) {  
  if ($x == 4) {  
    break;  
  }  
  echo "The number is: $x <br>";  
}  
?>
```


## PHP Continue

The `continue` statement breaks one iteration (in the loop), if a specified condition occurs, and continues with the next iteration in the loop.

```php
<?php  
for ($x = 0; $x < 10; $x++) {  
  if ($x == 4) {  
    continue;  
  }  
  echo "The number is: $x <br>";  
}  
?>
```