Variables are "containers" for storing information.

## Creating (Declaring) PHP Variables

In PHP, a variable starts with the `$` sign, followed by the name of the variable:

```php
<?php  
$txt = "Hello world!";  
$x = 5;  
$y = 10.5;  
?>
```

**Note:** When you assign a text value to a variable, put quotes around the value.

**Note:** Unlike other programming languages, PHP has no command for declaring a variable. It is created the moment you first assign a value to it.

    Think of variables as containers for storing data.

## PHP Variables

A variable can have a short name (like x and y) or a more descriptive name (age, carname, total_volume).

Rules for PHP variables:

- A variable starts with the `$` sign, followed by the name of the variable
- A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
- A variable name cannot start with a number
- A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
- Variable names are case-sensitive (`$age` and `$AGE` are two different variables)


## Output Variables

The PHP `echo` statement is often used to output data to the screen.

The following example will show how to output text and a variable:

eg-
```php
<?php  
$txt = "W3Schools.com";  
echo "I love $txt!";


$txt = "W3Schools.com";  
echo "I love " . $txt . "!";

$x = 5;  
$y = 4;  
echo $x + $y;


?>
```


In the example above, notice that we did not have to tell PHP which data type the variable is.

PHP automatically associates a data type to the variable, depending on its value. 
Since the data types are not set in a strict sense, you can do things like adding a string to an integer without causing an error.

In PHP 7, type declarations were added. This gives an option to specify the data type expected when declaring a function, and by enabling the strict requirement, it will throw a "Fatal Error" on a type mismatch.

---

## PHP Data Types

Variables can store data of different types, and different data types can do different things.

PHP supports the following data types:

- String
- Integer
- Float (floating point numbers - also called double)
- Boolean
- Array
- Object
- NULL
- Resource

More details at https://www.w3schools.com/php/php_datatypes.asp


