Some subdomains aren't always hosted in publically accessible DNS results, such as development versions of a web application or administration portals. 

Instead, the DNS record could be kept on a private DNS server or recorded on the developer's machines in their /etc/hosts file (or c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts file for Windows users) which maps domain names to IP addresses. 

  

Because web servers can host multiple websites from one server when a website is requested from a client, the server knows which website the client wants from the **Host** header. 

We can utilise this host header by making changes to it and monitoring the response to see if we've discovered a new website.



Like with DNS Bruteforce, we can automate this process by using a wordlist of commonly used subdomains.

  

Start an AttackBox and then try the following command against the Acme IT Support machine to try and discover a new subdomain.

  
ffuf 

           `user@machine$ ffuf -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/namelist.txt -H "Host: FUZZ.acmeitsupport.thm" -u http://MACHINE_IP`


The above command uses the **-w** switch to specify the wordlist we are going to use. The **-H** switch adds/edits a header (in this instance, the Host header), we have the **FUZZ** keyword in the space where a subdomain would normally go, and this is where we will try all the options from the wordlist.  

Because the above command will always produce a valid result, we need to filter the output. We can do this by using the page size result with the **-fs** switch. Edit the below command replacing {size} with the most occurring size value from the previous result and try it on the AttackBox.  

ffuf

           `user@machine$ ffuf -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/namelist.txt -H "Host: FUZZ.acmeitsupport.thm" -u http://MACHINE_IP -fs {size}`
        

This command has a similar syntax to the first apart from the **-fs** switch, which tells ffuf to ignore any results that are of the specified size.  

The above command should have revealed two positive results that we haven't come across before.