
## The < script> Tag

In HTML, JavaScript code is inserted between `<script>` and `</script>` tags.

### Example

<script>  
document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "My First JavaScript";  
</script>

    Old JavaScript examples may use a type attribute: <script type="text/javascript">.  
    The type attribute is not required. JavaScript is the default scripting language in HTML.

## JavaScript Functions and Events

A JavaScript `function` is a block of JavaScript code, that can be executed when "called" for.

For example, a function can be called when an **event** occurs, like when the user clicks a button.


---
## JavaScript in < head> or < body>

You can place any number of scripts in an HTML document.

Scripts can be placed in the `<body>`, or in the `<head>` section of an HTML page, or in both.

---
## JavaScript in < head>

In this example, a JavaScript `function` is placed in the `<head>` section of an HTML page.

The function is invoked (called) when a button is clicked:

```
<!DOCTYPE html>  
<html>  
<head>  
<script>  
function myFunction() {  
  document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "Paragraph changed.";  
}  
</script>  
</head>  
<body>

<h2>Demo JavaScript in Head</h2>  
  
<p id="demo">A Paragraph</p>  
<button type="button" onclick="myFunction()">Try it</button>

</body>  
</html>
```

---
## JavaScript in < body>

In this example, a JavaScript `function` is placed in the `<body>` section of an HTML page.

The function is invoked (called) when a button is clicked:

```
<!DOCTYPE html>  
<html>  
<body>  
  
<h2>Demo JavaScript in Body</h2>  
  
<p id="demo">A Paragraph</p>  
  
<button type="button" onclick="myFunction()">Try it</button>  
  
<script>  
function myFunction() {  
  document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "Paragraph changed.";  
}  
</script>  
  
</body>  
</html>
```


    Placing scripts at the bottom of the <body> element improves the display speed, because script interpretation slows down the display.

---
## External JavaScript

Scripts can also be placed in external files:

### External file: myScript.js

```
function myFunction() {  
  document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "Paragraph changed.";  
}
```


External scripts are practical when the same code is used in many different web pages.

JavaScript files have the file extension **.js**.

To use an external script, put the name of the script file in the `src` (source) attribute of a `<script>` tag:

```
<script src="myScript.js"></script>
```


You can place an external script reference in `<head>` or `<body>` as you like.

The script will behave as if it was located exactly where the `<script>` tag is located.

