Tools allow us to automate the reconnaissance that can identify potential privilege escalations.

While it is always important to understand what tools are doing, they are invaluable in a time-limited setting, such as an exam.
In this course we will mostly be using winPEAS and Seatbelt. 

<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">PowerUp & SharpUp</mark>
PowerUp & SharpUp are very similar tools that hunt for specific privilege
escalation misconfigurations.
PowerUp:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PowerShellEmpire/PowerTools/mast
er/PowerUp/PowerUp.ps1
SharpUp: https://github.com/GhostPack/SharpUp
Pre-Compiled SharpUp: https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-
CompiledBinaries/blob/master/SharpUp.exe


<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">PowerUp</mark>
To run PowerUp, start a PowerShell session and use dot
sourcing to load the script:
PS> . .\PowerUp.ps1
Run the Invoke-AllChecks function to start checking for
common privilege escalation misconfigurations.
PS> Invoke-AllChecks


<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">SharpUp</mark>
To run SharpUp, start a command prompt and run the
executable:
> .\SharpUp.exe
SharpUp should immediately start checking for the
same misconfigurations as PowerUp.

<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">Seatbelt</mark>
Seatbelt is an enumeration tool. It contains a number of enumeration
checks.
It does not actively hunt for privilege escalation misconfigurations, but
provides related information for further investigation.
Code: https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt
Pre-Compiled: https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-
CompiledBinaries/blob/master/Seatbelt.exe


<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">Seatbelt</mark>
To run all checks and filter out unimportant results:
> .\Seatbelt.exe all
To run specific check(s):
> .\Seatbelt.exe <check> <check> ...


<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">WinPEAS</mark>

winPEAS is a very powerful tool that not only actively
hunts for privilege escalation misconfigurations, but
highlights them for the user in the results.
https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-
awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/winPEAS


<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">winPEAS</mark>


Before running, we need to add a registry key and then reopen the
command prompt:
> reg add HKCU\Console /v VirtualTerminalLevel
/t REG_DWORD /d 1
Run all checks while avoiding time-consuming searches:
> .\winPEASany.exe quiet cmd fast
Run specific check categories:
> .\winPEASany.exe quiet cmd systeminfo


