## FTP Downloads

Another way to transfer files is using FTP (File Transfer Protocol), which use port TCP/21 and TCP/20. We can use the FTP client or PowerShell Net.WebClient to download files from an FTP server.

We can configure an FTP Server in our attack host using Python3 `pyftpdlib` module. It can be installed with the following command:

#### Installing the FTP Server Python3 Module - pyftpdlib

Installing the FTP Server Python3 Module - pyftpdlib

```shell-session
glack@htb[/htb]$ sudo pip3 install pyftpdlib
```

Then we can specify port number 21 because, by default, `pyftpdlib` uses port 2121. Anonymous authentication is enabled by default if we don't set a user and password.

#### Setting up a Python3 FTP Server

Setting up a Python3 FTP Server

```shell-session
glack@htb[/htb]$ sudo python3 -m pyftpdlib --port 21

[I 2022-05-17 10:09:19] concurrency model: async
[I 2022-05-17 10:09:19] masquerade (NAT) address: None
[I 2022-05-17 10:09:19] passive ports: None
[I 2022-05-17 10:09:19] >>> starting FTP server on 0.0.0.0:21, pid=3210 <<<
```

After the FTP server is set up, we can perform file transfers using the pre-installed FTP client from Windows or PowerShell `Net.WebClient`.

#### Transfering Files from an FTP Server Using PowerShell

Transfering Files from an FTP Server Using PowerShell

```powershell-session
PS C:\htb> (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadFile('ftp://192.168.49.128/file.txt', 'ftp-file.txt')
```

When we get a shell on a remote machine, we may not have an interactive shell. If that's the case, we can create an FTP command file to download a file. First, we need to create a file containing the commands we want to execute and then use the FTP client to use that file to download that file.

#### Create a Command File for the FTP Client and Download the Target File

Create a Command File for the FTP Client and Download the Target File

```cmd-session
C:\htb> echo open 192.168.49.128 > ftpcommand.txt
C:\htb> echo USER anonymous >> ftpcommand.txt
C:\htb> echo binary >> ftpcommand.txt
C:\htb> echo GET file.txt >> ftpcommand.txt
C:\htb> echo bye >> ftpcommand.txt
C:\htb> ftp -v -n -s:ftpcommand.txt
ftp> open 192.168.49.128
Log in with USER and PASS first.
ftp> USER anonymous

ftp> GET file.txt
ftp> bye

C:\htb>more file.txt
This is a test file
```

---