
The real power of PHP comes from its functions.

PHP has more than 1000 built-in functions, and in addition you can create your own custom functions.

php built in functions: https://www.w3schools.com/php/php_ref_overview.asp


---

## PHP User Defined Functions

Besides the built-in PHP functions, it is possible to create your own functions.

- A function is a block of statements that can be used repeatedly in a program.
- A function will not execute automatically when a page loads.
- A function will be executed by a call to the function.

A user-defined function declaration starts with the word `function`:

```php
<?php  
function writeMsg() {  
  echo "Hello world!";  
}  
  
writeMsg(); // call the function  
?>
```

---

## PHP Function Arguments

- Information can be passed to functions through arguments. An argument is just like a variable.

- Arguments are specified after the function name, inside the parentheses. You can add as many arguments as you want, just separate them with a comma.

- The following example has a function with one argument ($fname). When the familyName() function is called, we also pass along a name (e.g. Jani), and the name is used inside the function, which outputs several different first names, but an equal last name:

```php
<?php  
function familyName($fname) {  
  echo "$fname Refsnes.<br>";  
}  
  
familyName("Jani");  
familyName("Hege");  
familyName("Stale");  
familyName("Kai Jim");  
familyName("Borge");  
?>
```

The following example has a function with two arguments ($fname and $year):

```php
<?php  
function familyName($fname, $year) {  
  echo "$fname Refsnes. Born in $year <br>";  
}  
  
familyName("Hege", "1975");  
familyName("Stale", "1978");  
familyName("Kai Jim", "1983");  
?>
```


---

## PHP is a Loosely Typed Language

In the example above, notice that we did not have to tell PHP which data type the variable is.

PHP automatically associates a data type to the variable, depending on its value. Since the data types are not set in a strict sense, you can do things like adding a string to an integer without causing an error.

In PHP 7, type declarations were added. This gives us an option to specify the expected data type when declaring a function, and by adding the `strict` declaration, it will throw a "Fatal Error" if the data type mismatches.

In the following example we try to send both a number and a string to the function without using `strict`:

```php
<?php  
function addNumbers(int $a, int $b) {  
  return $a + $b;  
}  
echo addNumbers(5, "5 days");  
// since strict is NOT enabled "5 days" is changed to int(5), and it will return 10  
?>
```

To specify `strict` we need to set `declare(strict_types=1);`. This must be on the very first line of the PHP file.

In the following example we try to send both a number and a string to the function, but here we have added the `strict` declaration:

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1); // strict requirement  
  
function addNumbers(int $a, int $b) {  
  return $a + $b;  
}  
echo addNumbers(5, "5 days");  
// since strict is enabled and "5 days" is not an integer, an error will be thrown  
?>
```


---

## PHP Default Argument Value

The following example shows how to use a default parameter. If we call the function setHeight() without arguments it takes the default value as argument:

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1); // strict requirement  
function setHeight(int $minheight = 50) {  
  echo "The height is : $minheight <br>";  
}  
  
setHeight(350);  
setHeight(); // will use the default value of 50  
setHeight(135);  
setHeight(80);  
?>
```

---

## PHP Functions - Returning values

To let a function return a value, use the `return` statement:

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1); // strict requirement  
function sum(int $x, int $y) {  
  $z = $x + $y;  
  return $z;  
}  
  
echo "5 + 10 = " . sum(5, 10) . "<br>";  
echo "7 + 13 = " . sum(7, 13) . "<br>";  
echo "2 + 4 = " . sum(2, 4);  
?>
```