
Superglobals were introduced in PHP 4.1.0, and are built-in variables that are always available in all scopes.


Some predefined variables in PHP are "superglobals", which means that they are always accessible, regardless of scope - and you can access them from any function, class or file without having to do anything special.

The PHP superglobal variables are:

- $GLOBALS
- $_SERVER
- $_REQUEST
- $_POST
- $_GET
- $_FILES
- $_ENV
- $_COOKIE
- $_SESSION

below are few examples


---

## PHP $_SERVER

$_SERVER is a PHP super global variable which holds information about headers, paths, and script locations.

The example below shows how to use some of the elements in $_SERVER:


he example below shows how to use some of the elements in $_SERVER:

```php
<?php  
echo $_SERVER['PHP_SELF'];  
echo "<br>";  
echo $_SERVER['SERVER_NAME'];  
echo "<br>";  
echo $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'];  
echo "<br>";  
echo $_SERVER['HTTP_REFERER'];  
echo "<br>";  
echo $_SERVER['HTTP_USER_AGENT'];  
echo "<br>";  
echo $_SERVER['SCRIPT_NAME'];  
?>
```


---

## PHP $_REQUEST

PHP $_REQUEST is a PHP super global variable which is used to collect data after submitting an HTML form.

The example below shows a form with an input field and a submit button. 

When a user submits the data by clicking on "Submit", the form data is sent to the file specified in the action attribute of the < form > tag.

In this example, we point to this file itself for processing form data. If you wish to use another PHP file to process form data, replace that with the filename of your choice.

Then, we can use the super global variable $_REQUEST to collect the value of the input field:

```php
<html>  
<body>  
  
<form method="post" action="<?php echo $_SERVER['PHP_SELF'];?>">  
  Name: <input type="text" name="fname">  
  <input type="submit">  
</form>  
  
<?php  
if ($_SERVER["REQUEST_METHOD"] == "POST") {  
  // collect value of input field  
  $name = $_REQUEST['fname'];  
  if (empty($name)) {  
    echo "Name is empty";  
  } else {  
    echo $name;  
  }  
}  
?>  
  
</body>  
</html>
```


---

## PHP $_POST

PHP $_POST is a PHP super global variable which is used to collect form data after submitting an HTML form with method="post". $_POST is also widely used to pass variables.

- same example as above but change in php code

```php
  
<?php  
if ($_SERVER["REQUEST_METHOD"] == "POST") {  
  // collect value of input field  
  $name = $_POST['fname'];  
  if (empty($name)) {  
    echo "Name is empty";  
  } else {  
    echo $name;  
  }  
}  
?>
```

---

## PHP $_GET

PHP $_GET is a PHP super global variable which is used to collect form data after submitting an HTML form with method="get".

$_GET can also collect data sent in the URL.

Assume we have an HTML page that contains a hyperlink with parameters:

```html
<html>  
<body>  
  
<a href="test_get.php?subject=PHP&web=W3schools.com">Test $GET</a>  
  
</body>  
</html>
```


When a user clicks on the link "Test $GET", the parameters "subject" and "web" are sent to "test_get.php", and you can then access their values in "test_get.php" with $_GET.


The example below shows the code in "test_get.php":

```php
<html>  
<body>  
  
<?php  
echo "Study " . $_GET['subject'] . " at " . $_GET['web'];  
?>  
  
</body>  
</html>
```



