The HTML `id` attribute is used to specify a unique id for an HTML element.

You cannot have more than one element with the same id in an HTML document.

## Using The id Attribute

The `id` attribute specifies a unique id for an HTML element. The value of the `id` attribute must be unique within the HTML document.

The `id` attribute is used to point to a specific style declaration in a style sheet. It is also used by JavaScript to access and manipulate the element with the specific id.

The syntax for id is: write a hash character (#), followed by an id name. Then, define the CSS properties within curly braces {}.

In the following example we have an `<h1>` element that points to the id name "myHeader". This `<h1>` element will be styled according to the `#myHeader` style definition in the head section:

<!DOCTYPE html>  
<html> 
<head>  
<style>  
#myHeader {  background-color: lightblue;  
  color: black;  
  padding: 40px;  
  text-align: center;}  
</style>  
</head>  
<body>  
  
<h1 id="myHeader">My Header</h1>  
  
</body> 
</html>

---



## Difference Between Class and ID

A class name can be used by multiple HTML elements, while an id name must only be used by one HTML element within the page:


---

## Using The id Attribute in JavaScript

The `id` attribute can also be used by JavaScript to perform some tasks for that specific element.

JavaScript can access an element with a specific id with the `getElementById()` method:


<script>  
function displayResult() {  
  document.getElementById("myHeader").innerHTML = "Have a nice day!";  
}  
</script>






